oh my gosh it's episode 39 of hot line
they bet she didn't see this one coming
well actually we're doing it on a
Wednesday because I was traveling we're
gonna talk about that I was talking to
some cereal people about some sports
stuff Marcus super excited this is the
first time in a while he's awake for an
episode so it's gonna be really good we
had to wake up because we don't have a
guest but that's fine there's a lot to
talk about all that more coming up on a
hotline League in just a second
hotline League is brought to you by omen
by HP well here we are
hotline League episode 39 or one away
from episode 40 mark are you excited um
I'm ready the big four oh yeah midlife
crisis ready to hit well change the
direction of the show I don't think 40
is normally when people get sad a wheel
that's got a wheel like spinning wheel
or what good yeah we added one to the
LCS countdown it's ring okay steel the
ideal is add a wheel here okay yeah
whenever something is feeling like it's
at the end of its life cycle you just
add the wheel you bro say isn't 40 not
that I feel like 40 is exactly when it
starts I feel like people have midlife
crisis is at 30 which is like when I'm
one year away from it people all think
I'm in my 30s but people who have
midlife crisis at their 30s are just
duds yeah well okay I'll try to avoid it
then yeah what 40 40 and 50 makes sense
like you've had your first kid or two
like you starting to give up on your
dreams your body's not really working
yeah like 40 makes sense if you're
having the midlife crisis at 30 I don't
know Breanna's on the chat I think
Rachel just logged on our computer cuz I
always make fun of the fact that Brianne
never shows opt or something that's
that's a quarter life crisis the quarter
life crisis is a totally different thing
than the midlife crisis where it's like
midlife crisis is you realizing you
you'll never hit your dreams where's the
quarter life crisis is like you don't
know what the fuck you're doing with
your life
yeah or you just realize like it life is
no longer fun cuz you right you were
like in college and you were partying
and by partying I mean playing World of
Warcraft nine hours a day and
well either way you find out sorry you
found out how bad it's gonna be yeah you
found out your lit degree English degree
isn't good for much I've been teaching
English and starting the show off on a
positive note mark how have you been
what's been going on with you great
offline TV launched their merch today
okay so you can get this right
wrapping yourself no I'm just
highlighting that because it looks okay
there's a movement there that I feel
uncomfortable with um well that's great
to hear
congratulations is there a mark shirt no
still no marks specific merch okay when
is that coming because I know you've
been wanting that for awhile
what do you mean Travis I only do merch
in partnership with other people okay
like you need to get your face on those
underwear too otherwise it's never
coming out okay well let's uh like so
you get that that anything else happen
interesting for you in the past week you
do you do anything you know hearthstone
expansion came out been watching a lot
of bad finish octo path traveller but I
think I had finish that by the time we
did a little last episode yeah so no
really not too much I love oh what I
asked if there's anything interesting
you just go through your games you're
like well I beat up the path traveller
in the new hearthstone game hits so
that's about it games movies and maybe
like a personal update about something
but usually not yeah
usually not well I went to Michigan this
is why we moved the show yeah you're
Kellogg's trip did you get any free
merch like do they give you boxes of
something that you need to take home
well I can't like the plane situation
it'd be hard if they give me like boxes
of cereal and then I have to like figure
out how to get that back then why is
that awkward that's because of like it's
like I'm gonna check this bag of cereal
now and ultimately they're like probably
costs by dollars to cereal on I'm just
walking on with like the Froot Loops
they gave me yeah
I don't know if they do free loops that
probably was fucked up um Rice Krispies
and that's they do sports never grew
they do there was one moment there was
one moment in 2018 it like it could have
gone in the opposite direction
it was the eSports was just out of
precipice at the Travis fucked up with a
brand and now he sports his it's
complete you know I went so I went to
Kellogg's they flew me out there which
was very nice of them pick me up in the
very nice holiday in nearby there's not
much else in Battle Creek Michigan which
is where they are and by the way Battle
Creek Michigan it is literally like
cereal city because apparently post is
also there and like they have Kellogg's
college and Kellogg's Arena and like
everything is Kellogg's but it's like a
city just about this it's like it's like
- yeah it's like two hours out from
Detroit and went over there really cool
I talked about eSports with seltzer
snicks and grape cream over Greg who
does kind of funny stuff is that I think
it's kind of funny anyway first time
meeting out oh he's really nice I just I
don't watch a lot of his content but I
hear he's like an amazing person and he
did an amazing job on the on the panel
and seems like a cool guy great Greg
Miller Greg Miller a dark King says and
yeah like it's just uh it was a meeting
with their marketing team and all these
people are super interested in eSports
super interesting gaming want to learn
want to know how to do it right it's
really cool you know like sometimes I've
got in and I'm gonna say who but in the
past I've got in and talked to brands
who ultimately don't show up in eSports
but they just don't they're they're not
really interested in figuring out how to
do it in a cool way and I think they
were asking a lot of really great
questions like hate work and we do
something nice so anyway just shout out
to Kellogg's they didn't pay me for this
and they didn't pay me to go talk to
them but I hate for you to do it they
paid the travel and I think that was
worth it because they seemed really
interested the units posted show I mean
I dropped hotline link a couple times I
was like I do this show it's really
great we got people that call him we've
got all these amazing twitch users you
know is the saddest thing ever was when
we're at Yahoo eSports and we had the
Reese's puffs I can't talk about that
why not because it's under you can't
talk about it
that's an NDA thing well I just think
they're they ran ads I'm talking about
that oh why was that said because I
wanted at some point to get some merch
some free cereal I never got free
cereals like this is the second coming
of my dream of getting free cereal from
people sponsoring eSports yes I will I
will hit them up I will tell them Mark
would love some free I actually think
that's a great way for them just do
something small in the spaces just send
people a bunch of cereal and I assume
happens yeah I'm not gonna like full
unplug you but like fuck all I eat it oh
yeah yeah sit there okay the one time
you're okay with me just suggesting
crunching noises on air yeah speaking of
disgusting crunching that crunches
noises on the air let's see what has
been happening in the NA LCS this past
week well every coach got fired every
coach fired everything well okay so
there are some like caveats on some of
this stuff so obviously a narrow
step-down a couple weeks before so he's
out but that was a step down
David limit it was mutual I know that
people say mutual whenever they mean
fired my understanding of the situation
we're talking people behind the scenes
was it actually was mutual so that's but
he's no longer at clutch and then six
leaves CLG seemingly fired and then what
am I forgetting about anybody else Oh
Tyler from going Guardians yeah still
with the organization but not
interacting with the main LCS roster at
the time being at least that's what they
announcement made it seem so it's
interesting why do you think it is I
don't know because so obviously they all
departed or got fired whatever for
different reasons so it's not gonna be
like a single blanket
thing for each of them but it is I think
still like in a symptom somewhat of
franchising and like how things will
roll a little bit more I guess in
traditional sports we're like if things
aren't working out like you just make
that decision as soon as you don't think
it's working out I don't know yeah it is
is really weird well they can't or pass
the roster deadline right so I think
that's part of it is that if you are T
or if you are dissatisfied with your
your current situation and you feel like
you need to make a change you can either
bring people in from academy or you can
make a change at the 'coach level right
and I think in a lot of ways a coach
change is somewhat less disruptive
assuming you are like promoting
internally because someone's already
been there the whole time there's like
not that much to go through versus like
a roster change which unless like you
we're already like doing split scrims
like you're not sure how it's gonna go
right yeah yeah I yeah I don't know it
for me in a lot of situations some of
the stuff just doesn't make sense like
the departure of Tony from CLG is really
confusing to me because I don't see how
getting rid of him in the final two
weeks of the split is going to get you
to where you need to be I'm not saying
that keeping him is going to but what
are you hoping to accomplish with that
move and there wasn't as much as Inlet
shadow he wrote rip me zix is here in
chat he's a great guy
no but it's it's weird because it's I
just don't understand the reasoning I
haven't talked to Nick about this or
anything I don't know what went on
behind the scenes there's been a kind of
a lack of messaging right like oh we
really like Tony and it's unfortunate
he's leaving but he's leaving and it
doesn't seem like it's Tony's decision
and I again I just don't understand how
within with two weeks left and the split
like this is somehow going to everything
changed once Tony was no
in the building you know yeah I mean
like it has to be especially with some
like some of these other guys they don't
have like the long-standing history that
that Tony kind of has and like he was
kind of synonymous with CLG at this
point but like you have to think there
was some sort of clash between him and
the management or something like I just
speculation but like otherwise yeah why
not just wait for two weeks if you don't
make worlds and like the same thing
would have happened anyway or make
playoffs I mean what it happened anyways
yeah
here is one theory that I have okay so
who all made coach changes okay echo fox
doesn't really count but we saw coaching
changes at golden Guardians at CLG
clutch and cluck clutch personally but
TSM as well oh yeah okay so Weldon
showed up but are they does that change
that like a song you know per the ESPN
report got a pay cut and was taken off
stage and logo or less boy was on stage
and stuff yeah so like then it sounds
like there was some pretty based off
that ESPN article it sounded like
there's a pretty either way
series power show you're more of a
sports guy between the two of us in
traditional sports whenever a team is
failing coaches get axed really quick
right like they're the first thing to go
I'm like wrong uh I feel like I
constantly see like this team struggling
a half way through the season this coach
yeah I mean like to be fair in those
leagues most them have thirty teams and
so like if you turn over four coaches in
the middle of a season that's actually
not that crazy yeah but usually code
like it's very results driven right like
if a team is is underperforming in the
sports role they think the coach gets
the axe right so that's my question is
was there pressure from Madison Square
Garden msg who owned CLG to say like
well what are you doing to do this like
why are you not like if your team is we
all think your team should be performing
better than they are
why is your coach still there and I
wonder if there was pressure there I
wonder if there's pressure from GSW
leadership to like make a change of
guardians level after the team started
losing like it's just it's it's an
interesting question for me it's like
are we starting to see stuff from the
sports world start to make its way into
LCS but you tell me if I'm fucking wrong
no I think that I don't think it happens
in sports at the level we're like 40% of
the coaching staffs are changing yeah
percent if you include like an arrows
thing right like literally few percent a
league and summer they're all under
longer contracts and traditional sports
right people sure but I don't think if
anything that'd be why you would ax it
because it's not yours gonna wait them
out oh yeah what the Alexa shut up sorry
my phone vibrated I was trying to turn
off the thing and then it did that okay
well and then you triggered her alright
so I don't know maybe we'll get a call
from that yeah how did the results go
this weekend I'm trying to remember this
was actually a week we normally do this
on Mondays and it's like we're fresh off
of it now that's what I'm trying a
little feedback you bump your thing a
little bit like lower my negate can you
bump the gate up oh yeah let me just
keep talking so I was just gonna say
that this weekend actually went pretty
normal I only we had many many weekends
were like for the most part the favorite
teams win yeah Chet and I both went nine
and one this weekend I thought well
they're not predictions so like for the
most part things check out the way you
would expect not like you would have
expected it a couple weeks ago but like
you know optic and fly quest doing
decently well ya see nines rising and
TSM still losing the echo fox by the way
yes I'm still losing in general yeah mm
well they'd be both : Guardians
I yes we can't talk too much about to
you son because then people yell at me
people are really upset by the way that
I talked about TSM oiling
I think it's interesting than everyone
else's interviews Travis what's that
it's because it's showing up and
everyone else's interviews hey when a
team plays TSM and then beats TSM and
they weren't expected to I think it's
interesting to talk about TSM I also
think honestly TSM is probably the most
interesting narrative from this entire
year like the the legacy after all these
years is seemingly broken I don't think
they're gonna make worlds and that's
maybe one of the craziest things to
happen and do I think doublelift will
get in trouble for saying TSM bribed
Riot Games now well probably just tell
them not to do that sorry I don't think
that I do I just I don't know so I think
it's the most interesting am I wrong I
mean I don't think you're wrong because
there's not much else to talk about I
think maybe in some other context like
if TSM was sucking but like there was a
griffon in na that we should be popping
off about maybe but the top three teams
are the top three teams from last split
in the exact same order
- like fly quest who haven't like I've
said before that they're kind of like
clutch from last but where it's like
yeah they have a good record they make
some good plays they're clearly not a
bad team but they're really they don't
look like they're at all threatening to
actually challenge any of those top
three teams and I've beste five yeah so
like it's hard to talk about something
when that's the same thing as the last
split I mean I think it is the same
thing as the last flip but this time it
matters a lot more right well and they
had a better excuse last split the last
split they could sorry that I mean to
cut you off last split they could say oh
we are brand-new and we just changed out
like a shit ton of our roster I don't
know what their excuse is now no I I
agree I was gonna say the same thing
like it's an exact same situation as
last time there's less story building to
do around like the teams and for TSM
people were talking fair amount about
them last but when they're struggling
like you said but there was a reason for
it and now it's like not just oh they
might struggle to make playoffs
that'd be fucking crazy to like we won't
see them at worlds if they don't make
playoffs yeah I'm there with you I think
it's time to get into calls you want to
explain how this works yeah do you want
to talk about the topics first so that
way people can start oh yeah
okay so here's here's what I will say
because this is coming up a little bit
in twitch chat so obviously there was an
article that came out this week about
sexism at Riot Games spent the last 24
hours thinking a lot about how to
address this and I I know a lot of
people will disagree with the stance but
I have struggled and especially looking
at Highline League what I don't want to
see is a conversation with a bunch of
dudes about sexist charges against a
company that you know we all are working
with it's just like a weird situation
it's a weird way to try to address it's
a weird group of people so I think look
if somebody Jade 49 and twitch chat says
Travis gonna pussy out again
first off gendered language alright
ironic that you'd use that term when
we're talking about this topic
I don't think look here's the deal
I don't think hot line League is the
place to do this to have this
conversation because people are gonna
call in we don't have a producer to sort
of figure out make sure that it the
conversations are gonna be civil and
reasonable and you know not child as
some shitty and I don't want to make the
problem and the discussion and all the
stuff worse by giving a platform to all
the insanity and by having a discussion
without any sense of diversity involved
right we've had women on the show before
we don't have them on the show today
maybe we should have tried to either way
we just don't have it so one thing I
will say is that if I don't want to shut
off all conversation about the topic if
there is like a female caller who wants
to come on share her opinion about the
stuff I think that that would be totally
acceptable that's where I'm kind of at
I'll get playing for this I get it but
like that's it's a it's a sensitive
subject of controversial and that's how
I've chosen to address it on the show
yeah mark do i I mean I don't need to
say anything if you don't do but I think
like like to your point like this is
mostly an eSports talk show right we've
almost only talked about an LCS - it's
not even like the leave scene as a whole
but I do think this is like relevant
enough that if there is a compelling
topic in there like I'll try and pull it
and I'll try and talk with the person
beforehand a little bit longer than when
I'm usually just checking to make sure
their audio is fine because it doesn't
really matter if someone comes not in
flames TSM it's not really the same
situation here so it's not like we're
correct me if I'm wrong your tribe it's
not like we're completely not gonna have
the conversation but like we're gonna be
a lot more prudent than we usually are
when they are talking about something
yeah and also just some people in chat
mentioning it like bring women on the
show more like 100 percent down to when
we have frost got here a couple times if
she's watching in chat and we don't know
like hunter sent down to have her eyes
well but other than frost and maybe
Kelsey but she's busy most often in
Europe like being an analyst for a team
I don't and I don't know how much I know
she's watching there's not that many
people to chime in so yeah there's a
couple of people taking issue and chat
with my conversation about having a
woman calling to talk about it I think I
think it is it would be really weird I
don't know how else to say this I just
think it'd be really weird to just have
three dudes talking about a sexism issue
I just I don't know how else to say it
like I think that's really weird I also
think it's really disappointing that you
know the current setup and climate for
this stuff doesn't really allow for open
to skirt I think it's that's like a
shitty situation that there's not a way
for people to openly discuss it but like
it's just complicated again like I get
people are gonna take issue with the
fact that we're not just people are
tuning in they want
drama they want us to just like either
say that Wheatley articles all wrong and
how dare people say this or say that the
article is right and how dare riot do
this it's just that's not what this show
is and I don't want to make the
situation worse
maybe there are other options and other
content ways to do this maybe there's
other platforms I'm gonna keep thinking
about it and try to come up with
something that's where we're at for this
show
mark you wanna explain how columns work
yes so if this is your first time
watching you don't know what the hell
we're really talking about right now in
twitch chat I'll be posting spam posting
the discord link when you get here there
will be two voice channels blood calls
and blood calls too you can just hop
into one of those and meet yourself once
you're in there and then within the text
channels above that says plug topics and
subtopics you will go ahead and post
whatever it is that you want to talk
about and specifically what your take is
so you know you don't want to just say I
want to talk about the sexism article
out Kotaku like please have you your
actual take in there so I can know what
we're getting into a little bit same
with anything else if you want to talk
about why CSM is screwed while the
coaches are getting fired yna sucks YT
STL is gonna become the great na hope
and do fantastic whatever it is make
sure to include some of your reasoning
in there as well and then anyways once
you post that if I like it I'll pull you
into the waiting room when it's your
turn and I'll come down and I'll make
sure that your microphone is fine and
then we'll pull you into the show to
talk about it and if you are a sub by
the way which I'll be reading out some
subs in a second first off thank you
secondly if you link your account to
discord you can get access to the sub
chat mark and I pull people from there
as well you don't have some sort of like
unfair advantage if you get into the sub
chat but I do think that it's a you know
it gives you like a little bit of a leg
up because it moves a little bit slower
so anyway thank you to all those mark is
going to pull through that right now and
I I'm going to go to the stream lamps
dashboard and read off some people thank
you so much - I think that we had scarda
9 for lol for resetting for three months
avarice jus
ooby 87 cage relics kazakh hurt
Karkaroff PhD Bonzo TV Babu : get to
this up to five people which are
everyday wrestler your mother's onion
Vantaa spectrum ex-minister pink Oh see
431 4n units J smash cane of being
blonde squirrel reset for six months it
says my work schedule finally changed so
I can launch alive thinking for your six
months Kawhi Anthony diehard loser Coley
berry Koli bear 12 licks see hurry sub
for two months since a spark chap Hasan
HS subbed dark King reset for seven
months and says how was it meaning great
Miller super nice guy loved him a real
foxy one gift of sub to sell me drugs
film a Heine riot risks sub real foxy
give to us up to you seen in his fake
news re Waddell reserved for six months
and says Owen by HP our sponsor for the
show SHINee froakie reset five months
and says what five months it's been
there are some more but we'll get to
that in just a second where are we at on
folks mark I look at the first one okay
get a couple how are you guys doing
twitch dad if you missed it I did launch
a show it's a profile on different
individuals that work at riot the first
episode is Ghostcrawler that came out
last yesterday you can check it out the
next one coming on tomorrow's with
Nathan and Lau who was the individual
who was on the show a couple weeks ago I
was right employee works as a data
analyst there and has some interesting
insights see it looks like oh okay so
we've got Christie on the show how's it
going Christy hi I'm good how are you
pretty good where you come from Austin
Texas Austin Texas so what are you
looking to talk about on the show
tonight um so I know the Kotaku article
is a really big issue right now so this
one is kind of personal for me because I
am also looking to break into the
eSports industry but I'm kind of
wondering if such issues are allowed to
persist within company giants like riot
how can more women actually be included
in roles within eSports organizations
and games like riot
so it's an interesting situation again
like a little I I wish we had a woman on
the panel right now to talk about this
your question is how can women be more
involved in this stuff right yeah
exactly so I think there are two in the
past 24 hour to organizations because
I've been kind of doing some research on
organizations out there that are about
promoting this stuff I think for me to
that stand out are any key so this is a
a partnership between Intel and ESL that
and I remember God announced a couple of
years ago I think and it's all about
fair and inclusive gaming they have a
lot of different projects and they
partner with different women and
individuals in the space so it's really
cool and then and there are at any key
org and there are there's also if you go
to we are video games org there's an
association initiative called we are
which is a partnership between ESEA our
sorry ESA and Red Bull all about sort of
telling the connecting women their
mission says it's designed to connect
women with diverse backgrounds in the
video game industry to educate on the
impact of women in the community and the
legacy they have achieved and to inspire
new voices and talent to contribute
passionately into video games so I think
those are great initiatives that are
happening that are hopefully pushing us
in that direction
i I also think by the way there's a I
think it's a it's called be valiant
because your question was specifically
about eSports organizations right mostly
yeah but also just in general like
gaming companies yeah
well on the eSports organization side
props to folks over at immortals because
their overwatch League side did an event
called be valiant which is a or it's I
guess it's their initiative be valiant
and they did several different things
including a block party oh maybe the
block party got postponed but they did a
girls in gaming some
presented by Microsoft so I think the
good news is is that there are some
initiatives out there that are trying to
push this stuff you know I think one
thing that I would like to hear is from
four there was a really great ironically
right before the stuff came out I
tweeted about this article that was
really fascinating to me it was a
written by a woman who placed really
well I'm not familiar with the Magic the
Gathering scene but I thought it was
really good it's over on my Twitter Jess
just Stefan is Twitter account and I
guess she won a Grand Prix which I
believed to be a big deal and Magic the
Gathering and it was a it's an
interesting account of her experience
going through all of that and at the end
there's a section where she says so how
can we make competitive game magic more
welcoming for women and kind of goes by
step by step on how to go about that it
was really interesting for me to read
and I really appreciate the step-by-step
and I think you know what I think would
be helpful for the discussion moving
forward would be to see and I think we
saw some of this during sort of the
conversation around the me to move ahead
at the start of the year women in the
eSports space come out and sort of give
you know pointers on how people can help
so that's the stuff that's interesting
to me I don't know what you think
Christine um I don't know it's it's a
pretty loaded sort of topic but you know
I really like the stuff that you've
mentioned so far and I did remember
reading that Magic the Gathering article
I personally am also not really
connected with Magic the Gathering like
in any way but you know like just simply
reading the stuff that she was talking
about about how she was going to these
competitive events and you know all
these guys are really questioning her
they're like why did you fly across the
country to come here and she's like oh
my boyfriend is with me and they're like
oh I get it like you're just here to
support your boyfriend who's playing
like everyone just automatically assumed
she was not there to play
she was there to support someone else
doing it and you know that's something
that really resonates with me because
I've been to video gaming conventions
several times and I always get weird
looks like nobody ever really pictures a
girl as a gamer like this was also
mentioned in the Kotaku article is like
everyone's sort of opinion their first
impression of what a gamer should look
like and should act like is basically a
guy so I think that there really need
some extra steps and kind of recognizing
that you know not like okay I'm sorry no
you're fine
my nyquil is kicking in so I'm trying to
be as eloquent and no worries now um
basically you know there's also that
issue with the sirens as well and how
that was kind of a mess I think I feel
like that really put a shadow on women
and gaming just because of the way that
they were teased and made fun of and
they're still like memed about today so
I just really think that people in
gaming communities really need to
recognize that girls actually do play
video games and they're not doing it to
just like get attention or their friends
with people that play games that kind of
thing ya know I think that's really fair
and I really appreciate you calling in
and having this conversation with us is
there anything else that you you would
want to mention or saying before we move
on to the next color um could I possibly
change the subject a little bit sure
sure what do you want to think about CLG
letting go of coach six yeah I think we
talked about it a little bit at the
beginning as a show but yeah mark I'm
curious about your thoughts cuz I knew I
said sort of my take I kind of hate it
you know I don't know exactly what
happened but on paper you have one of
the best like any coaches
and I think you can look at the roster
and be like all right we seem to be
successful of another officer we're not
as good as we were then insta like we
should get him more talent to coach and
work with but that's why I said it
seemed like that's what I think I think
that's what a lot of the community
thinks that's why I said it probably had
to be something else
yeah very curious all right I want to
say thank you so much to Christy for
coming on the show and thank you to the
mods who are working overtime on the
chat right now yeah thank you for
letting me discuss this yeah thank you
so much have a good rest of your evening
thank you you too all right moving on to
the next color
we've got I should get someone should I
yeah you can grab one more person we've
got time okay
we started a little late um let's see
real foxy one gifted reserved for nine
months
thank you real foxy shout out to tayo
they are here for me this week unlike
Kelby yeah Kelby unfortunately is
traveling right now otherwise I would
have tried to pull him Nova Prospekt
reset for seven months bread has been
killing it with setups for playmakers
good stuff boys thank you real foxy
gifted a sub to Brodin I was suing me
reset for four months and biblically
gifted a sub 2x marriage we've got moon
is--all on the show right now moon is
little how's it going good Travis how
are you doing pretty good where you call
from I'm calling from Anaheim Anaheim
that's right I remember you're nearby
what do you want to talk about on the
show tonight um well due to the firing
of zix
I was just thinking that maybe CLG could
put in an arrow and froggen an arrow and
froggen like well you want them to hire
an arrow and then why Oh frog and as a
coach uh I mean as a coach possibly or
maybe even just putting him in mid lane
okay do you mean for this splitter for
next flip for next foot obviously
because I think Travis was a look I was
a little confused too you only make sure
that we're on the same page that's an
interesting take
I think well so they could do it because
they can't they have the import slot i
i'm CLG and i don't make it two worlds
this year i'm probably making pretty big
changes to that roster yeah i mean i
think we're kind of getting ahead by
talking about roster changes and for
this organization in right after week
seven but that's kind of my my take i
mean i think to the point about like
changing out coaches like i I think six
was fine but now he's gone like maybe an
arrow makes a lot more sense as like one
of the people left up you can also
potentially look to get a Korean coach
or something like that who really knows
the froggen points an interesting one
because the whole style that CLG has
pushed for so long ever since six has
been the coach there has really been
like a teamwork oriented one and like
moving on the map and who he's probably
for all his faults and highs and lows
he's a very selfless player who like
will do whatever he thinks is best he
got like the game going and froggen at
least play style wise from what I've
seen it's kind of the opposite of that
and so it would be like a fundamental
redefining of how the team works which
might not have been possible with Tony
on the team because he he wants them
playing a certain way or maybe the whole
team wants for that way I don't really
know but maybe this coaching change
opens up that roster change as well yeah
I would be a nurse like again if if CLG
can't make this work they I think that's
just time for them to reset like they no
longer have their coach who was kind of
like that one of the defining
individuals at that organization and
what they have like I think a lot of the
iconic players are no longer there if
people have been kind of talking about
like oh we lost
doublelift and we lost aphromoo and we
lost six over the past couple of years
maybe it's time to just like reset and
reform and try to see what you can do
and maybe by the way even it's just
taking a step back right because I think
CLG has suffered over the past year
because expectations have continued to
remain high given clg's legacy so if
they were to say look we are
intentionally resetting we're finding
some rookie talent we're doing this kind
of going with that golden Guardians
route of
we're gonna build herself back up I
think that that would be maybe healthy
for them they lose some fans on the
short-term but may be healthy for them
long-term long-term yeah I feel like
that's something that they might have to
look at but I feel like it all this
change would also help reign over as
well because right now reign over is
like I don't know in a tough spot kind
of like basically the focus is like
towards bot lane right now because
they're like honestly like hard carrying
in my opinion but besides that besides
the fact like I think froggen with being
in a controlled style for them and that
would help them and then if reignover
could perhaps funnel in and help support
froggen then bottling could do their
thing and then they could help snowball
from there yeah thank you can people
keep it a frog like if you in a world
where you're resetting the roster I
don't know if I well it in worldwide you
have the opportunity to reset the roster
I don't know if you bring frog in and
say like okay he's what we're gonna
build around I mean I can understand
that for sure but they could you could
look at it as them building around
sticks a bio frost right over yeah yeah
I think I like that idea a little bit
more given that they're a little bit
more proven now that course are not
proven without Tony there or whatever
but bio frost seems like a bit of a stud
and 6a can be a little like streaky but
for the most part seems pretty good and
if the rest of the team is doing well
he'll be doing well so my only concern
like I said is froggen is a completely
different playstyle from what we ever
see now CLG but if they're blowing it up
and starting over maybe maybe it works
but at that point you're we're talking
about turning over sixty percent of the
roster and it's hard to know what else
you're filling it in around hey since
we're talking about Tony moon is Alif
you can tag along for a little bit here
we have nursing to know your take on the
subject what what happens if CLG wins
the next like several games I'm cute
like mark or Munna so what do you guys
think my gut reaction is like honeymoon
phase okay no I doubt Tony was part of
the problem or like that I mean I give
Tony law the benefit of doubt obviously
because I'm really good and probably
because I'm a little biased because I'm
a bit of his friend too but I think any
time that there's changes there's often
like this like extra bit of hope and
like things are different everything
feels different and so people kind of
yeah in time has change it's like a
reset moment yeah so even if someone
wasn't a problem even just any change
can help yeah temporarily and so even if
they go on a little bit of a streak here
barring a significant playoff run I
don't know if you know I would read too
far into it and even then like plop
there guy who's gonna be stepping in
this someone who's worked with Tony for
a long time
I know plot pretty well we're not pretty
I shouldn't say that like but I've heard
a lot about him from Tony and from other
people who think he's pretty good so I
think they're in decent hands and if
they do make it a good lay season
surgeon actually is it like a deep
playoff run that I think you have a lot
of Goldman excuse me Lauren he's going
by Goldman now instead of plot let's
just keep calling him plop I'm gonna
keep going to block will plot flop will
pop flop that's a new twitch at no man
go but if they go on a late season run
maybe like just a couple of games at the
end of a season that's gonna be over for
them anyways would not speak to me very
much yeah - all I mean it's kind of hard
for me because Tony brought two
championships to the team in the org and
I mean like like like Mark said you know
it's gonna be like a honeymoon phase
type thing yeah I know my the way say
they're scheduled this weekend is TSM
and fly quest I think both of those are
winnable definitely I'm now that we
can't talk about why TSM helps hope we
don't see a base race though yeah mark
do you think they can take to yourself I
mean can't anyone take TSM right now I
mean yeah it's I mean that they lost to
or they beat goal and Guardians this
past week so it was close
yeah if I remember correctly by the way
I
did an interview with rain over or sari
with bio frost three weeks ago three
weeks ago I think 24 and in it they had
just gone to oh and he says yeah the
last time we went to oh we lost the next
six games and I was like oh you got to
be careful well Frost you might be
cursing yourself you know and he's like
no I think we're gonna be fine they have
lost the next six game so he iced yikes
yeah a lot of learn to blame you for
that yes the CLG staff times me cuz I
retweet it every time matcom gets really
angry um anyway thank you so much Mina's
little for your call yeah thanks guys
thanks for having me alright moving on
to a quick break here just in time
just in time I want to talk to you guys
about drum roll maybe the most important
thing ever to exists owned by HP sitting
up here we got them in a different
location because there's only two of us
this week oh and by HP they have they've
been supporting the show now for quite
some time
they are amazing to work with really
enjoyed working with them and one of the
things that we've worked on recently
recently is a show called good game well
played GG WP you can find it on the omen
by HP YouTube channel I'm gonna pull it
up right now they say it's a the first
episode talking about CLG is all about
bio frost and we've now had there's a
couple different things that we've put
out from it now obviously the trailer
the full edited episode but one of the
things that I want to show you guys
which I'm going to show up on I'm gonna
throw up on the screen in just a second
is because I'm partial to this obviously
a full interview that I have done it's
the because the show is a bunch of
different things it's like a lot of this
interview that I've done with bio frost
but it's also these other elements we
edited down an hour-long interview to
get into that show it's it becomes about
maybe like 22 minutes of conversation
but now now the full unedited episode is
up on or a full unedited interviews up
on the YouTube channel so you can go
check that out
it'd be really interesting by the way to
know if you guys like the interview or
if you like the more polished show that
we have that we ended up putting out but
that's the thing that I've been working
on with them for quite some time in the
hour-long interview by the way it's not
just like jibber jabber we actually dive
into you know where Bifrost grew up sort
of what life was like for when he was
then how he found League one of the
things that I found found out that was
really interesting was the fact that he
apparently never expected he wasn't he
was playing league and getting really
good and just not following League
eSports at all he had he was had no
interest in it like he was vaguely aware
of who people were that's kind of where
he was that before he went pro so that
interview is up I will link to their
YouTube channel in the description I
will also link to their YouTube channel
right now and the twitch stuff so you
guys can check it out check it out but
thank you so much to omen by HP for
their support please go take a look at
that content because we did it it
represents the blood and pain and
sleepless hours of a lot of different
people it's pretty pretty freakin high
production really big fan and proud of
what we were able to do together so
thank you so much - Owen by HP for your
support of the show and thank you to all
of you for checking out good game well
played
featuring bio frost what's the spiciest
thing in there in that full interview
spicy ducks what talks about TSM he
talks about the time that he was there
and I asked him you know like there's
rumors that behind-the-scenes it's not
great and he answers that that
conversation we talk about it so I think
it's pretty good good conversation to
have if you saw the full episode and you
wanted more now you can take a look at
the full interview that's out there it's
pretty cool so thank you so much time
went by HP mark if you want to pull the
next person yeah I would love to some of
the Quadra man says one is the backstage
video with Team Liquid coming out very
good question you know who you should be
asking you should be asking bro template
there's his Twitter he's my creative
director he's in charge of it cuz we're
gonna play makers and he did a lot of
work on that
but he's the one that skates we're all
waitin on him for the Team Liquid video
I hope it comes out soon go tweet and
buggin Opie TSM fan is in the channel
has it gone Opie TSM fan pretty pretty
good I'm turning you up cuz you were
loud in the past you've called him a
couple times before right yeah I think
at least three or four times but you
know loved the show obviously thanks
what you I think you had a controversial
take that we might have clipped at one
time no I was the guy with the milk with
frost Guren oh yes that's right
okay yeah and you live in Texas yeah
Houston Texas Houston Texas well welcome
to welcome back to the show what do you
want to talk about on the show tonight
ah news flash I actually want to talk
about TSM shocking but I want to say
that it's actually their lack of success
is really really good and I think that
TSM fans need to stop acting like the
whole entire ship is burning we just
need to throw everything out sorry did
you say their lack of success is good
for the organization long-term yes okay
well you're gonna have to make it you'll
have to make a strong argument for this
one my boy
I think because they've had so much
success doing just enough to get by in
na and while na through franchising and
just through importing has gotten
stronger what they've been able to just
get by with hasn't worked i I've watched
a lot of analysts and stuff they talk
about how like they don't think even
though I personally think like IG is
like the best team but they're just out
mechanicing people and I think for a
long time maybe you just had the best
staff of the best resources on TSM
because you know they were the most
successful organization everyone to go
there but I think if you look at I put
in my top my take to mark is that if you
look at Katy like last year at this time
everyone thought they were gonna blow up
it was a whole full year with them
putting together this so-called super
team with pawn and you know deft and
Mota that you know were
you know this duo that came over from a
different region and stuff like that and
then a year later and now they look like
one of the best teams in Korea and in
the world but obviously that's not what
I'm trying to say that TSM can be but
they can get better if they stick with
this team going forward and take a hard
look about some of the things that have
made them not achieve their goals this
year and I think they're actually having
an off season to finally do that would
be better mark you're escaping your box
and thinking about this I'm reading
things and listening very closely you
will listen closely then what's your
response it's a bit of a tough self like
I I'm half a meeting them halfway like I
think that this I feel like this can be
good for you in the kind of way we're
like organizationally you get to
reevaluate a lot of things that we're
working in the past versus now hopefully
in like what went right what went wrong
and maybe that can help you in the long
term
with the specifics of this roster though
I'm not a hundred percent sold because
you know Katie had a period of time
where they were like they're no although
their first year together they
definitely struggled and we're not as
good as they should be and they made a
couple small changes on people like you
Cal said upon or whatever I still think
they were contending for number one at
different points in that season like
there was the SKT vs Katie like super
super hyped matchup where they were both
like only one loss or something but then
I think like you know that they had
their struggles their ups and downs but
I still think they they had peers regal
I could see the potential where's like
with this TSM roster you haven't really
seen the potential too much there was a
kind of the late season push or latley
split push last split what they went on
a small run before losing in quarters so
I'm a little hesitant about that though
I would also believe that like with one
or two roster tweaks this could be a
great lineup yeah and you want ostrich
weeks though right yeah I wouldn't say
give like these five guys another shot
like I don't think that'll
and and you saw you saw that with Katie
though because then come next or this
past spring ponds out and they bring in
you Cal know you're not gonna find some
seventeen-year-old prodigy or in my case
thinking of a jungle prodigy because I
kind of feel like it's interesting to
note that people like
febiven who's come over from EU and now
spin and Mickey who come over from EU
like they look like very very passive in
their laning phases and like both of
their teams like clutch and TSM who
obviously I'm both fans of like play
very passive and loss reduction styles
but that we've used to see them on h2k
on g2 on fnatic one Feb event was there
if they had a pressure point on the map
that they could use as a catalyst
someone who can like spearhead them in
the early game that they can really
perform so I think that that's the place
where you need to address it if you want
to make a roster tweak although I think
it's interesting how we haven't seen
Mike Young not saying he's like the
solution or anything like that era
prodigy but that would be one of the
roster tweaks that I think you know you
can look at I I've been all over the TSM
subreddit and it's just it's absolute
dumpster fire everyone's going from oh
my god you know just just you know throw
everybody out Reggie needs to step in Oh
have you been to the CLG subrin have you
been to the cloud nine suffered a couple
of weeks ago if these the I it is really
crazy when you go and do these sub
reddits whatever a team is tanking
hardened yeah and it's just I think I
maybe I I have a lot of friends who
think that oh well t assembled we'll
call it you now and everything it'll be
great I'm just like I don't have that
kind of blind faith that y'all do and in
some ways I kind of think it'd be better
for TSM as an organization going forward
to have I'm not saying humility because
I don't think all these guys are like
arrogant but maybe for the fans it might
be better to just be humbled and like
actually watch from the sidelines for
once at Worlds yeah I I see the argument
I think you're gonna have a hard time
convincing 88 TSM fan that them not
going to Worlds is ultimately a good
thing
I some people are just Optimus Travis
alright don't rain on his parade
well here's so here's something somebody
said to me recently that I really liked
not about TSM but about a different
organization they said when everything
is going well for you and when you only
have success it is really hard to
identify where the problems are and I
think there's an interesting argument
argument to be made that TSM has likely
who knows what they are flaws within the
organization and the way they run the
team or the way they pick players
whatever it may be it just comes down to
the roster didn't work out but that when
when you are finally confronted with it
you know that's when you can start to
identify those problems the problem is
is that it's also hard to identify when
when everything has worked out for you
so long and it suddenly isn't it's again
hard to find where the problems are
whereas at least as something builds
over time you get to like kind of figure
it out so I'm curious to see how TSM
takes and reflects and thinks about all
this stuff yeah should be fascinating I
I agree with that you I think it's funny
because be arson has always said in like
these TSM Legends episodes it's like you
know you learn more from a loss than you
do from winning because you'll get to
take and it's like well you've done a
lot of that this split so hopefully
going forward you know y'all can try to
learn more and stuff so I appreciate the
time I know y'all ready to get to other
calls but so much by the way that well
if the last thing I will say is if they
don't and I don't want us to get
sidetracked but I think there are some
contracts that are coming up at the end
of this year I think I'm trying to get
Seuss's paid right now but I think the
king himself Sauron is his contract
might be up at the end of this year so
does he stick around I don't know I I'm
on a 90 percent sure that he will stick
around regardless of if the rest of the
people around him are there but I just
don't I not because I think like oh who
do you replace them with or whatever but
because obviously he's a fantastic
player I'm not one of those people it's
like oh Jurgen was the problem yeah but
I don't I don't see I don't see
going anywhere I think he's too tied to
the TSM brand and that Reggie wants to
keep him there so he'll probably just do
anything to keep them there it'll be
interesting for sure
um thank you so much for the call and
yeah for sure she ate hearing from you
yep y'all take care thanks and thanks
for your support by the way always he's
moving on to the next call we've got
where are we a couple different people I
think I said Nova Pro Nova Prospekt
resub says spreadin has been killing it
with these setups for Klara's I do
remember saying that and then they gift
the next one reach Selim Reis up for
eight months and says TSM SIG's nut red
king hook brandoni in six months says a
slit doctor make good body toasty poo
Wrath of Khan give to subdue Christie
thanks again Wrath of Khan for us and
Christopher Graham on the show living
target Sri subbed watch marm watch me
mart-mart ooh Gladius lips and dude
Casey we got the Nova Prospekt oh I just
read out the Nova Prospekt
who reserved for some months thanks for
being and here you are how's it going
it's going good
is this your first time on the show we
have you had you on before this is my
first time on the show well thank you
for seven months you've been supporting
me this is the first time you've come on
so hopefully mark hasn't been brushing
over you during that entire time good
okay
where are you calling from sunny and to
hot Los Angeles my friend okay well it's
not it's not sunny
I've got a window in front of me so I
think you're lying it's it's still hot
okay yeah it probably is what do you
want to talk about on the show okay so I
was on the clutch gaming subreddit
earlier and they do this this is a Moute
you're the most interesting caller we've
had some fun because you have now shown
me that clutch gaming has a subreddit
yes they do
and we were talking about
zix leaving CLG and like if that's a
possible like pick up as a coach yes
Dida cook Joker has submitted this is
that you know
oh but you patan you have a giant wall
of text in this I do my favorite kind of
redditor dude so it's just I was that
way too you just write a fucking wall
fire-and-forget okay so go ahead and go
elaborate sorry okay
so Dee Lim is gone and if what you're
saying behind the scenes it sounds like
he it was actually mutual he left on his
own accord a lot of people have been
talking about this this possible like
Zeke's pickup or the idea of it you know
yeah and my argument was although that
people like Zeke's and Elam are two
really good excellent coaches they're
kind of like old guard they understand
the investments that the players need
for them to improve you know they take
things that are good player talent
basically and then apply it to the team
strategy however I kind of feel that
clutch gaming has consistency and
cohesiveness already and I just think
that picking up somebody like Sikhs
would be kind of an over I'm sorry an
underwhelming pickup and I think that
they should go for somebody more like a
Korean coach like a European coach
somebody that commands respect and is
able to innovate things like I don't
think six commands respect uh I'm not
saying that well I mean you said he's
underwhelming and you're like we should
get somebody commands respect and is
willing to innovate I feel like for if
you look at the way six has like his
departure I feel like he commands the
respect of a lot of different people all
behind the scenes and in front of the
scenes and on reddit and I feel like I
mean mark correct me if I'm wrong but
CLG I mean they're not as insane as in
arrows echo fox but they've been pretty
innovative in the past right I think you
could definitely say that CLG has had
some of the most at this summit I talked
a lot with SCARA on glt and stuff like
they seem to have some of the most well
thought out on prepared level ones
mm-hmm and it's hard to say how much of
that is like the coaching staff well of
course but it has been through a fair
amount of rosters that they've had these
kind of like good plans like when they
had the smithy jungle era the reignover
jungle era afro Moo bio frost light
I think at least in that regard he's
shown he's innovative as well as fact
like CLG was always there they've always
had some of the weirder team comps that
like make some sense and sometimes go a
little too far down the rabbit hole but
I think if you're looking for innovation
and respect there's basically no better
na option and if you're saying you don't
think that's good enough then that's a
fair perspective I guess but I would say
like you know innovation and respect is
it's kind of like having sig Z but now
you got me standing around good X is six
to be clear but you should keep calling
them Zeke's cuz it's throwing off twitch
I was losing their mind I'm losing my
mind too now but yeah I think I think he
would be a good pickup for a lot of
teams it could just be one of those
things for like a change was needed
sometimes that you just like people get
into a rut they're doing the same thing
over and over again yeah sometimes you
know while it sucks and feels bad it
might be for the best
but it does sound like you're saying
clutch is too good for zix i I think
you're twisting my words there I'm just
kidding but what but you do you would
rather see a coach picked up from Europe
or Korea do you have a coach in mind not
necessarily I mean somebody like Yamoto
cannon or something like that who is
like an incredible innovator he seems
like the type of guy that would command
respect and obviously I kind of have a
negative connotation towards na in
general I guess and na coaches just
because I feel like we've gotten to a
point to where a lot of teams feel like
there is this special formula where it's
like if we play passive and follow these
rules then we can win a game just given
the invent
interview that piglet didn't stuff like
that where he's talking about how bot
lanes play in na and how they play
passively when their jungler isn't there
so it's really easily read I just feel
like we need something new and something
a little bit more daring in order to to
kind of take that extra mile sorry who
is the European coach that you said
would be interesting am I getting this
one wrong as well
sorry which which European coach did you
say I said yamoto cannon okay thank you
I just want to double-check though it's
Yamato I think it's the way it's
generally pronounced all right Thank You
Janice no no it's good I've just I am
loving twitch chats reaction to this um
somebody said if he says your boat oh
and then right at that moment you said
your moto and just everyone lost their
mind
you made oh Yamato tomato it's all the
same guys yeah yeah alright I hear you
though I see what you're saying and yeah
I think I think it is it comes down to a
pretty simple question which is like do
you think any it do you think any of the
NA coaches are good enough of a native
na coaches what about what if clutch
could pick up prolly would that be
interesting to you yeah yeah I mean he
has experience on other stages and I
think that's something that that it
can't be looked over so yeah yeah I'd
say that that would be an interesting
pick yeah I don't know mark you have any
other thoughts on this no I mean the
crux the argument is any coaches aren't
good enough so even though SIG's might
be attractive don't go for him and like
I'm not sure I agree with that but like
it's not one of those things sure I can
offer something up to be like you're
wrong or you're right you know mmm it's
kind of an opinion very good ketchup
thank you so much the Nova Prospekt for
your Colin and thank you for all the
support you've given no problem guys
take care peace may ask that piece like
six times gotta get some new uh I mean
it's nicely piece is a great thing to
wish to people yes
living target reset for three months oh
we said that's Kermit sodoku reset for
three months thank you for the content
my guy no problem Salaam peace loves lo
mo booper just Jo Ruby see result call
me proto reset for five months hydroxyl
mark extreme glad to be a sub fi I'm it
was in the waiting room before my
internet dropping for a second love the
show did you catch that mark calling me
pro
was in the waiting room and then their
internet dropped I don't know if you
want to bring him back but did you I
don't remember well that I mean they
said that in the you I didn't pull them
you don't think it may be a lying we'll
see okay I'll see if I remember is topic
when I've okay I'll put them in there
for now so much list Mike spam is on the
show Mike spam I feel like you always
have controversial takes yes I do
just because if I thought they were
uninteresting I wouldn't be bringing
them all right well if Eric fair Duff
what do you got for us tonight well
remind me where you from
just outside Seattle well it's the same
place I've always been what do you want
to talk about in the show uh so there's
been two in ALCS fan controversies that
have happened this week one was with the
people screaming during the matches and
the other was with Pope elder's tweet
about players getting their nipples
twisted yeah yeah I wish we could maybe
players being grabbed inappropriately I
don't know if we need to explicitly
describe the action every time Travis if
someone does not know what he's talking
about
I think the clarity could be useful all
right well it's it's a hard topic
actually it's like super shitty and
weird that somebody would do that but
obviously people are gonna it's such
like a random thing to do like if you
say touched inappropriately it's like a
connotation right yeah I just I don't
know salted but that seemed so we
interrupted you though what what did you
real quick before you go down whatever
the topic actually is like I just want
chimed in on the assaulted thing like I
saw some people tweeting like they got
assaulted and this and then like this is
you know harassment or and like I get it
like the desire to call it but can we
not turn everything up to 11 like it's a
bunch of jackass kids who are dumb fucks
who should get kicked out or something
or band I don't care but like it's chill
out I'm calling it assault that's that's
my only thing
my expanding whistle is over the top
what is your your take well I was gonna
say is I think the reactions from both
rioters and from the community or lack
of for one and really intense focus on
the other stems from the same root cause
which is people really don't know what
they want out of a live crowd in East
woods right now hmm that's an
interesting thought can you elaborate
yes so I believe it was the last time I
was on I was talking about like venue
size and crowd noise and how I didn't
really understand people like really
caring about crowd intensity for matches
and I think that ties into which is that
there's this idea people have of they
want to watch eSports and they want to
feel like other people are watching it
with them right but they don't want to
have to deal with the consequences of
being around to other people so you get
these really weird results where people
really care about hearing people's like
cheering during hype moments but they
don't want the crowd to be doing dumb
crowd things I mean it's it sounds like
people sorry I was just gonna say it
sounds like people do know what they
want right which is like cheer when
appropriate
don't scream whenever it rant randomly
whenever there's like a non hype moment
most people didn't say that it word kill
is and don't grab onto the physical
bodies of the people that are well
alright I was gonna get to that third
thing which is but then you have fans
who run up and part of the broadcast is
seeing the players going and interacting
with the fans right yeah that's like a
key moment of the broadcast and to me
everything is really like that's
disjointed and then you get rioters why
is that disjoint
sorry I'm operating on low sleep so
there's a good chance I'm not making it
fun I just don't understand why players
interacting with the fans feels
disjointed just how its feet read on the
broadcast and like you give all this
attention to the fan interaction and you
say great we want fans to be part of the
experience because fans have done wacky
things when they go to get handshakes
before and then fans do whacky things
during the game and that's suddenly
different and I don't think it's
different you get fans doing wacky
things during fan meets and people don't
want to call that out so I don't think I
agree completely with what you're saying
because like in traditional sports and I
went to a lot of football and basketball
games growing out like Celtics and
Patriots and stuff like that Bruins like
there's almost like a accepted level of
rowdiness that people want like people
like in height moments people should be
like screaming their head off and stuff
but also you don't want like I think the
way we're put it really good is like
you're there to watch the show and
support the show you're not there to
become the show and like that's true in
traditional sports you like even when
there's the wave going on that's like
being apart and like making like being
hype and shit but like you're not doing
like you're not rushing the field
you're not like screaming over top of
like other people sitting around you and
being obnoxious and making their fan
experience uncomfortable like that stuff
that also is looked down upon in
traditional sports similarly like when
pro players leave the field after a game
they go through this entrance where a
lot of times fans are like hovering and
they can like high-five them and stuff
as they go into into the like locker
room area and like once again there for
the most part people are cool but every
once in a while someone does some stupid
shit like throw shoes at him or like a
player for them to sign or like when
they get the high-five they actually
grab on their hand to make
awkward like to me this is just kind of
typical douchebag fan stuff that happens
in every sporting event yeah sir Azure
also known as Lauren in the chat says
respect other fans respect the players
respect the caster's easy and for me
that's what a lot of this comes down to
it's like I my only expectation from the
fans are that they're going to be
respectful and by the way 99.9% of time
they are it's just sort of like you get
these random people who don't really
understand basic social dynamics and
they do that I think there's another
person zemser sorry I don't know if I'm
pronouncing your name right it says but
what if the show is boring should I just
sit back and be bored or sit back in
silence and wait for it to be good yeah
yeah yeah because you're not the whole
you're not there to like be the show
you're not like well guys I have judged
this to be a boring game and now I will
change the dynamic for everyone by
screaming whenever the ward gets killed
welcome to the new show everyone it's me
versus awards you know it's just I yeah
like baseball gets boring sometimes
people don't suddenly be like oh I
better get up it head get a bunch of
attention going cuz this I gotta save
the show yeah I'm with you there
it's it's like if you don't like it
you're free to leave if you want to wait
to see if it gets good you're free to
stick around like you can talk like even
normal level in the LCS to your friends
you can pull your phone out like all
this stuff is acceptable it's like a
goddamn movie we're like you're not
allowed to do anything but like just
don't be obnoxious and I think everyone
who is ever obnoxious is usually aware
when they're being obnoxious
and just for some reason think it's
funnier than it is like that's most of
what it comes down to is like the people
who are cheering for the wards think
they're being funny and it's just not do
you remember the controversy over you
2016 Worlds was na right yeah yeah I
think it was during the quarter stage
like there was a USA chant happening and
people were extremely livid about that I
think that's part of the same Congress
Asian where I don't see a big difference
between word Cheers
and stuff like that I think that's
probably the same fan experience and I
think people only want crowd noise for
height moments which for me is sort of
like ignoring the actual human aspect of
the crowd if that makes sense like I
said I don't agree because this stuff
works 95% of the time 99% of the time
and it's only like when someone makes an
active decision to make shit about
themselves that it becomes a problem hey
Mark there's some good counter points in
the twitch chat right now ninja Brian
says that's very kind of wrong in
baseball stadiums it's not uncommon for
all the people to do the wave or jolly
bunny I know I D GAF says but they have
chance at these baseball games and
that's true like I have seen that before
where I've gone to a baseball game and
normally for me though it's something
that the stadium starts like not the
wave necessarily although I would argue
that the way it was pretty of a passive
thing first yeah yeah but that's
something that pop up on the jumbotron a
lot of the time it's like they will they
will try to get that going or whatever
so it's something like if riot or the
cat like if the casters are saying let's
get this going or what I don't know I
think it's just I think a group of
people trying to be like chant may be a
little different than people just
screeching annoyingly whenever war kills
and by the way the best way to tell if
it's one or the other is based on how
the reactions are right like people I
think don't like it when people cheer
for warts it was funny for five seconds
and then switch on and now you know like
but I think people do you like it
whenever you yell like let's go c9 it's
it's just a different thing it's it
shouldn't be that hard in my opinion
that tell the difference on this stuff
so here's a question what do you think
the reaction would be if like write it
like TSM loses a game if there was a TSM
sucks chant what do you think the
community reaction would be I think bad
I think it'd be pretty negative too yeah
I would say also one of the reasons that
that would be considered negative is
because you're not at a home or an away
stadium there's no such thing like
people are often more fans of the league
in the scene than a specific team or is
like if you come into a rival team
stadium like yeah you can expect two
people suck chant like this actually
happened when there were Korean or
Chinese teams getting intrude at the NA
quarterfinals or something and I think
people booed some of them or something I
don't exactly remember the specifics but
I know that has happened before and I
think then it makes sense because there
is no such thing as home in a way and so
you you don't really have a crowd
favorite or non crowd favorite and it's
it's just a different environment and
that's where I think you can start
decoupling traditional sports from LCS I
want to think there's so much Mike Stram
for coming on show what sorry what's
that I said you had too many good
episodes so I had to come no no it was
good it's good having you come on I
there's a funny thing that happens like
I people seem to say like I'll see to
people your your call you know I hope
you don't take offense to this but
somebody in twitch chat said like we
need more like a producer or something
to screen the calls because I don't I
think that it's okay to have a somebody
come in it's really boring if everybody
calls in and just says like well I think
TSM has been struggling this season and
I hope they make a change you know like
I think it is good whenever people call
in with in a controversial opinion
forces discussion around something that
we would normally discuss so I think
it's good thanks Travis
yeah me too thank you so much let me
move you back to your channel sorry I'm
like also producing or talking to one of
my mom's about something right now but
mark you want to grab the next person or
do you have any other other thoughts
nope okay wrapped it pretty well
Brigid let's see got a couple more
people to shout out moon is all who was
on the show earlier subbed fan Ron
Jenkins my boy I left then run it
against he's amazing total war streamer
go check him out he's been sup for seven
months he says OMG
Travis is my favorite source of
information for all the legends nerds
love the content thank you killing you
guy reset for two months thank you
killing a guy crap flame subbed Qasr 99
subbed Sultan of swag subbed one brew
three four and now we've got Mario on
the show Mario where are you calling
from
I'm calling from San Francisco wait shit
I grabbed the wrong guy
goodbye Mario sorry Mario it was good
seeing you I'm a troll dude my bad
we've got I'm sandwich on the show right
now
I'm scary which already called from I'm
I'm sandwich where you calling from very
good and what what do you want to talk
about I want a little bit kind of my
take on what the coaches being fired I
feel like I'm a little bit older
probably than your average league fan
and and I I follow a lot of professional
sports football hockey and all that and
I feel like this is a part of this is a
part of a shift as these teams kind of
discover exactly what kind of role
coaches should have as they as they kind
of get a more structured system in place
to give them a better template for
success gosh I yeah really quickly I'm
curious you said you're older than which
could you give me like an age range like
you're in your 30s or in your 40s you're
what how old do you think era it's up
this is not like a show of twenty
seventeen year old yeah age sixteen know
not to have this show like the average
much more mature on this show eighteen
thirty-one or something that's I would
say League eSports is probably a little
like it's not quite csgo age but I think
it's a little older a lot of us
kind of came up in the scene like all
the people calling in to my show saying
that they're older and they're two years
younger
sandwich please just freak bring back
bring back Mario I liked Mario he was
good okay so sandwich you said your take
is na LCS teams are actually trying to
finally figure out what they want for a
coach and that we are seeing changes
because of that is that correct yes what
is just I curiosity what is your
evidence or what makes you think that
that is why this is happening I think in
many professional sports the coach kind
of defines the the way the team is
supposed to operate and I feel like we
only see that in maybe two or three
teams I feel like we see that with se
prolly teams he goes to I think that's a
big reason why were you went with them
because probably defines the way they
play and then I am a CEO chief in and I
really felt like that's what six run to
the table
I think that's a pretty interesting take
that I pretty kind of agree with I think
more so definitely more so in
traditional sports coaches have systems
and stuff that like and play styles that
they kind of enforce on the team which I
think isn't probably the case too much
with coaches in the league scene part of
it I think is like a respect problem
like I think a lot of the coaches who
are newer into the scene couldn't
command a group of guys especially
veterans to like play their way quite
like you know song arguably did with IMT
or something and maybe fail to do with
TSM who knows but I agree like I think
TSM probably do have that kind of
respect and track our excuse musics and
probably have that track record where's
like you know in basketball you have
like Mike D'Antoni who's gonna make you
play fast paced basketball or something
like I don't think a lot of coaches have
an identity of like I'm this guy he's
that guy and
even more to that point because what
people don't have that like identity
when you get a coach for your team I
don't you know it's like well what do
you what are you getting him for other
than like hoping he is like mature has
leadership qualities and understands the
game well enough to actually hold a
conversation with the pros and like help
teach them some things you know I think
there is arguably a lack of identity for
a lot of coaches sandwich do you need to
replace the batteries in your fire alarm
or is that Marc yes yes I do you should
do that very poor right now where did
you say you're living Pittsburgh we're
not in fire danger well all right do
that sorry to hear about your your cost
situation I think batteries are not that
expensive though so hopefully you can
swing it soon you're not wrong
yeah I don't know I think it's
interesting I do I find it fascinating
that right now we're seeing so much
coach upheaval it's hard to know if
that's like for a specific reason or if
it's just sort of like hey teams are
just getting more used to swapping out
coaches or something I don't know you
know like is it is it just a fact that
like we do usually see coaches change
out maybe maybe quite frankly it's
happening what seems that people pay
more attention to I mean I think coaches
probably did swap somewhat frequently on
some of the other teams but this year we
care about all the teams so it's just
interesting
I don't know marked you have any other
thoughts no I think it was a interesting
take and I think hopefully as coaches
get more developed they have more of a
personality in terms or not necessarily
personality like more defined thing so
like if if you're TSM and that's like a
team that seems to be like full of
reactive players you find a coach who
also knows how to work with that or
something yeah two teams having a better
idea of how how to turn around a
franchise yeah thank you so much for
your colon sandwich thanks brown man
guys soon mark do you want to go pull
our coach friend who is a briefly
available sure
oh you just pulled him straight into the
college well yeah figured you said pull
him I did that alright well hopefully
I'll be working hello an arrow what's up
dude how are you I'm doing pretty good
you're really quiet can you get a little
closer of the mic cuz it's close enough
yeah that's good all right
so did you we you said you were
available for a short time we wanted you
originally on this episode but you were
unable to make it yeah it's working what
were you working on
I was just screams I'm just watching
screams and helping people with stuff
okay
I'm screaming like like watching screams
11 a.m. to 2 a.m. right now yeah so
that's real fun 11 a.m. to humblebrag
let's get on to what you want to talk
well does you have things or should we
be talking to you you fucking brought me
in here I never put a topic yeah I did
talk is cuz he sent me a message as the
show started saying hey I've got a
window available after 9:30 I can come
on and hang out and I but I think it's
good to have him on because like there's
you know some changes so what is your
role what you said you're a consultant
for two teams right now yep so what does
that mean are you like a coach are you a
consultant because you can't become a
coach what like what does this mean I'm
just helping people kind of establish
like practice structure that they kind
of need or felt like they haven't had
and just helping them work out how they
want to actually improve as a team so I
guess in some capacity it is coaching
but it's mainly coaching the like staff
on how to set up that stuff and build it
for the team so that way they can have
that like for the long term rather than
just hey I'm here to coach and while I'm
here we'll do this and then if I'm gone
well so is this see how you're coaching
the coaches I guess I'm away yeah is
there is there a world where you just
don't take another job and then you just
become a consultant and you go from team
to team fixing their problems maybe I
could see that being a thing yeah I
don't know I just don't want the
structure stuff that we like talked
about last week to continue being shit
yeah what you're working with going
Guardians
you're working also with an oceanic team
yeah order in the Opie oh okay
you say you're fixing structure but then
you're watching scrims for a long period
of time yeah well I mean that's where
like the direct structure for the
players is and that's where a lot of
teams feel like they're lacking right
yeah so they kind of need help in that
because you know if your practice isn't
good
that's like problem number one right
you're not gonna have a successful team
at the practice isn't good yeah so have
to work on that and then the actual like
system between that is also super
important yeah I think it's interesting
you talking about like coaching coaches
kind of thing I I did a little bit of
that like when we had Peter and just
like because I painter the coach
deadlift yeah Peter Peter Zhuang not
Peter pang yeah like at the time I don't
know I mean you've worked them more
recently than I have so I don't want to
say still this way or not but he had
good thoughts on the game a lot of times
but like could be a little
scatterbrained yeah and so a lot of what
I did was like helping him learn systems
to make sure that like his feedback was
good and things like that like setting
it up so like when we did post game
breakdown of a scrim like we would
instantly just hit the three biggest
things that stood out about why we won
or lost and what we wanted to learn from
those specific things before moving into
finer detail things and allowing people
who might not be relevant to those
topics like split up and like I did a
lot of that kind of stuff with him
versus like as much working with the
players as I did in the past
really you were like setting him up for
the future yeah yeah within our own team
like alright he's a guy who has an idea
of how I want game and is like doing the
pick/ban I might not agree all the time
but like at the end of day it's his road
show so at the very least like I'm
always gonna be there to support him and
if I think he can get feedback better or
whatever it is like that's that's a lot
of what I did
yep yeah I mean it's essentially
something pretty similar with all of
this I'll obviously help like directly
with some practice I feel like it's
necessary but right
mainly I mean they prefer to just be
like a hands-on teaching the staff
itself and helping the staff itself
I taught Telugu Telugu and Chad says
what kind of things is an arrow doing to
improve the quality of the scrims well
one just looking at the actual structure
that's there itself like how they even
go into fodder view how they set up like
the pre-planning for it and talking
about what's beneficial from that and
what's not and reasons why and then
talking with players and like kind of
what they feel their needs are and then
how staff can accommodate that and
making sure that everyone feels like
they're getting the most from it does
the main thing that matters is that the
players themselves are feeling like it's
a productive environment for them
learning and even if staff might have
the right like their own specific idea
for something that might work if it
doesn't fit the players it doesn't
really matter right and kind of helping
people realize that and the importance
of adapting your your structure to the
teams that you built there's obviously
like perfect system you build a team
around the structure that you have but
for a lot of eSports stuff it's very
different from that it's more of you
build a team with the parts you can get
and then try to hope that your staff can
fit that instead which is very like
backwards style sports traditionally
works mark any other conversations to
have with an arrow actually an arrow
what do you think about six leaving the
SEAL team well did he leave or was it
like what's not there anymore so one way
or the other he left that's the only
thing I'm gonna say I mean I don't
really know the specifics on it but if
the team hasn't been performing to all
for a long time and they feel like the
team should be doing better then I guess
it's just the move they need to make
whether he's like the right fit for that
team or not I guess they feel like he's
not that's like the fucking coldest take
you could take you yeah that is pretty I
mean it's hard to say dude like it could
be the same situation where what the
team needs is just not aligning with him
so they need someone different and
they've
maybe just not realize that and they're
just trying to get something different
like anything different to see if it's
the coach that's a problem or the
players it's the problem or whoever
built the tea-things the problem do you
think that's a good strategy in these
situations as a coach what like yeah
like I mean anyway in like two weeks
yeah exactly in like in such a short
timeframe and also you know like if
something's not working is canning the
coach like the best option or is it like
setting the site like with golden
Guardian seemingly they made the
decision and I know awkwardly you're
working for them right now but they made
the situation a decision to have Tyler
step down temporarily from the team or
at least seemingly temporary you know
like CLG could have done that there's
like a lot of different it's I just you
mentioned like okay the team wasn't
working out maybe this is the change
that they need I'm just curious if you
think that that's like usually the good
thing to do whenever team isn't working
out it's just a swap out the coach it
depends on like the situation really
like if if the organization is really
behind management's decision to build a
team a certain way and then their coach
was meant to fit this identity and then
it's not working then it makes sense to
get rid of the coach because his job is
to realistically like fulfill that
identity that the management build with
this team when they put him into that
yeah but sometimes it could just be hey
management built a really just like not
well mesh team and then the coach can't
do too much with it so maybe it's the
management that needs to be looked at
but then that's where the upper people
or whoever makes those decisions like
it's multiple different people that can
be targeted and it's very specific to
the problem itself actually it's just
important that teams do a lot of
introspection on why their problems
exist and whether it was the recruitment
process the hiring process for coaches
anything like that mark are you here
yeah well what happened you just relax
now on your stuff you but or right now
for mark thank you yeah I can hear you
we just can't see your webcam like
oh you sweet you've now it's a different
webcam yeah I really like this no I
think it's a pretty good look are you
able are you are you gonna switch
webcams or I've been trying all right
I'm gonna send you back to the black box
no it's it could take an arrow I really
appreciate it we do have a couple more
colors so I do want to I want to thank
you for coming on I'm glad we were able
to swing you for a little bit or do you
at when when you have to leave I'm
chillin till 10:30 okay so why don't we
just pull another color and you can hang
out and keep giving your opinion all
right sounds that sounds like the
coolest thing ever
you've suddenly got quiet well he's
moving to a different Channel all right
[Applause]
dude weight really quickly Mario sorry
we're gonna put you on pause an arrow
what were you gonna say I was gonna ask
when you're gonna take me off of the
mark Z roll
I own this boy I kind of I it's nice
having a backup anything ever happens to
mark then I'll destroy dragging people
yeah I don't want you to drag takes it
away faster yeah Mario is here Mario
first off I want to apologize to you
because what happened to you earlier was
very unprofessional mark incorrectly
pulled you are you have you recovered
surely I'm recovering I love how as soon
as you pull me we actually pull him
you're like hold on yeah Mario
I mean he's proven that he is the
patients so what Mario where are you
calling from
I'm calling from San Francisco San
Francisco I'm glad I mean I didn't know
if he'd moved in the past ten minutes if
you were in a different battle I don't
blame you yeah it's uh how's the San
Francisco Chile as always very good well
what do you want talk about you want to
talk about the show today we're gonna
talk about how cloud 9 is gonna make it
to world semies this year and with a
decent chance at making it to the finals
okay
it's lit did you I I want to add before
we dive into this was this did you just
you've wanted to be on the show for a
really long time
you knew mark wouldn't be able to resist
the bait you throw this opinion out
there or do you is this like what
how have you why are you saying us I've
been thinking about this for a while and
I think that the current roster right
now the current iteration is doing
really well and improving really quickly
along with licorice polling Alec and VP
worthy performance right now being like
the top two top laner in the league at
least if not better possibly better than
Sunday in some ways yeah be Krait now as
fats have him as the best laner in the
league and along with blabber and the
team's really synergy and confidence in
each other they they have it's like it
reminds me of the arrow and they had
high on the team before yeah
so why semis and finals look it's like
you've just described okay like it a lot
of people would look at that and say all
right you know like Bowl take care
I think cloud nine is going to make
worlds or I think cloud nine is going to
win summer but you're saying semifinals
and finals at Worlds yeah that's for
sure finals but I'd say they have a
chance okay
I think that the orchid self has had a
pretty good track route of making it to
quarters at the very least I think
they're three out of five now making it
to quarters at Worlds every year one of
those included a first-round bye so I
don't think I'd count that one
so I'd say - sure two out of four 5050
15 in a 18 or 17 season even then with
this roster pulling with a lot of rookie
talent showing up a lot of rookie innate
talent and pretty good coaching staff
behind them with reapered and this huge
turnaround the rate they're improving at
just in the league right now shows a lot
of potential a lot of room for growth
that and they have to have a lot of time
to make it to Worlds and just really it
really like the rate they're improving
at they look pretty similar to me they
just started adopting the old approach
c9 has kind of always done in the past
that wins in a which is pick some shit
that's gonna win later on in the game
because everyone's just not good enough
actually punish it and then they win the
game even though they fall behind on
gold I feel like they just actually went
back to doing that same thing because it
works in na
I thought they put their veterans back
in and that's just like easy mode to win
well it's really only two veterans on
the team now and I think that the
honestly pulled out recently or more
early game focus than anything was
relying heavily on like I believe so
long it's like early game focus I guess
I hello again I would say those mid to
late game pick I wouldn't say he's heavy
late-game but I would say like the
kindred the carrot pic also required a
lot of them how blabber played the
kindred pick was very aggressive
so I leads more into early game early
mid game focus I mean they're the last
team comp was dr. mundo Caixa yeah dr.
mundo kindred zilean Caixa that is
hardcore searching for that late-game
fantasy yeah
yeah that's the one you're like
referencing I don't know man I feel like
it's kind of a bait like they're not
they're obviously like good team because
their core their core of having sneaky
Jensen can play the game to a certain
extent and sure they're gonna be able to
win games off of that and later game
because people don't really know what to
do and they're definitely able to play
around having new guys on their team
because they're just still leading it
but I don't think they're any different
I feel like it's it's just kind of same
same c9 as before they're gonna pick up
their wins just like they did last split
you know where they started off super
far ahead same time as echo Fox was
because you could get like really easy
wins doing stuff that's not gonna win
for summer and I don't know I think that
is kind of the same I think they'll do
better this split and playoffs though
for sure but I think they're teamed if
they can somehow make it the world's
yeah they'll probably get out of groups
because they always do for some reason
insanely better at Worlds and they look
way better at Worlds and they do in an a
maybe they're just trying their ass off
when they get there and they're not the
opposite of TSM yeah but I don't know
well I just don't buy into it person
and there is a hater I'm not as much of
a hater so you think they're going to
World Finals what is that what what
about being a hater means well yeah that
was the that was the hot take here is
that yeah and they're like improving so
well and they're gonna do this for the
world's like no I think they can maybe
go well in playoffs because it's just
old c9 again playing the same way old c9
did but we definitely ain't winning
worlds C nines made it making it yeah
cuz like here's the thing like c9 this
c9 if they make worlds like if they make
worlds I won't be stunned they look
pretty good right now
in Ralph na as much as Nick hates them
but there's no way that they're like the
best team we've ever sent to Worlds
because we've never made it out of
quarters it's like you're there's no way
that this c9 is the best and they're
gonna outperform everyone I'm saying
they're gonna make it to semies and they
have a chance at final I didn't I didn't
say for sure finals no I'm saying we
haven't even got out of quarters bro
like this would have to be by far the
best team of all time for any to get out
of quarters I think it would be a
combination of the groups and like the
bracket shapes out to see where they
make it the semis I think with the how
the how world how world is shaping up to
being what teams are looking to go
there'd be a pretty good chance that
they'd end up with a good breast side of
the bracket that they'd be able to make
the run I mean htk proved that anyone
can luck in the court of semi so you
know if that happens then like tip of
the cap you're a prophet but I don't
think that was because they were a great
team just like what do they look better
on really that's the main thing for me
because like we say they got better but
like what cuz they looked pretty good
running gold and glue and Keith they
just sucked at the whole part of
actually closing in a game which is
obviously just an experience well maybe
that's something I'm better at and then
they brought in the old crew and I mean
I don't know the fucking stats right
offhand but for the most part games I've
seen it's been more of a now they start
to lose games a bit more and then they
just win because their players know what
to do is I kind
just seems like they swapped strengths
instead and they just went packed the
old si night so I don't know it just
feels like the same shipment I don't
know if they're like crazy different it
be cool if they were I fucking love c9
to win I mean um I was fuckin c9 fan
before I joined echo fox by the way yeah
I mean I'm I've been going to see nine
guest list this week that's the only
reason I can fucking get in LCS oh
really I thought you've been going with
echo fox no no no not at all I just hang
out with them because of my friends okay
those are my boys
gotcha well any other thoughts Mario I'd
say the biggest thing I've seen improve
is their decisiveness especially with
like blabber coming in how much they
trust each other and I was trusted put
into blur better perform on stage I just
don't know if there's a sigh sickness
increases gonna get them to semis or
finals that's the thing hey thank you so
much Mario for calling in I actually
know I really like this topic I think
it's good and and yeah I think it'd be
interesting you know c9 might be the
sleeper pick you know it's they have
such a rough start that like it'd be
really interesting to see again I don't
know if they're gonna make it to semis
or finals of worlds but I under what
they're gonna look like in playoffs well
it's great luck to you guys thanks for
having me thanks Ari about you got to
come back here to Prague so hard cool
yeah just fucking tell me I'm an idiot
talk to you later mark thanks oh yeah
yeah you got somewhere to be it's almost
10:00 there's three people I'm just
teasing I make you vent is official tree
so for six months snow subt burger bro
subbed uber lawn gnome reset for six
months I lost over 300 pounds in two
weeks thanks to my home and by HP laptop
thanks omen that's a success story if
I've ever heard one the pack 69 reset
for two months since is finally caught
Highland League and brand asaurus rex
reset for three months keep up the good
work
Travis I'd love to get your assistance
right now
audience if you can all just hover over
the stream if it says twitch prime that
pops up just click that
Center here Caza Court who I believe did
you sub earlier in the show cause the
court yes I did thanks well thank you
for being a twist Prime's sub or twitch
sub what do you want to or where you
come from
I'm calling from Troy Illinois I don't
know where that is but I'm glad to hear
that you're there what do you want to
talk about on the show I want to talk
about my current outlook on the state of
the game and his future specifically how
I think that season 9 he's either gonna
be the absolute worst season or the
absolute best season that we've ever had
no in between
okay lots of hot takes tonight so you're
saying in 2019 we will either have the
best of the worst season we've ever had
and you're talking about like from a
balance and game design perspective
right yeah like especially after the
dumpster fire that was like that is
currently season eight okay is season a
dumpster fire mark band and arrow uh I
don't think there's a consensus that it
is I know some people paid it and I
think it's actually really good I know
skaara kind of hates it based off his
tweets and videos but people look likes
lard boy comes in and says he thinks
it's in one of the best places that's
ever been oh yeah Dom agrees a lot of
European pros sound like they agree so I
don't think there's a consensus that's a
dumpster fire though I think it is more
like it's definitely more controverting
yeah yeah season eights been so good I
like having all these different new
champions it's fucking so good that's
something different slightly different
it's just great I would say you know I
don't even say the one thing I'll give
it is that like the way that they've
rolled out just in the mid season and
stuff like that was a train wreck I will
I will agree with you guys on an eSports
perspective but that is like an average
player and from an average players
detective especially talking to other
people that I play with that play the
game none of us are really enjoying it
especially the fact that we don't have
time to just like I catch up with all
these insane changes that have been
going on like I like wasn't paying
attention for two and a half weeks and
all of a sudden baby carriers don't
exist anymore
like it was just a bit sudden
that's like timing too right you could
just miss like two and a half weeks in
october/november whenever they do the
big patch and then it's like Oh what the
fuck there's different camps in the
jungle now what's happened to my game I
hate this okay well that's just setting
aside how we feel about the current
season why is season Niners he's gonna
be the best or the worst
okay so season nine they write recently
today actually post something on the
forums about their like pending gameplay
changes what they're trying to do with
season 9 and I think that a lot of the
stuff that they said in those gameplay
changes are like very good and will
improve the entire state of the game of
ton stuff like reducing the overall
damage and burst of the game I get the
damage that people have and then also
making like just like games that are
like unwinnable resolve like a lot
faster like that was one of their main
points that they had in that post which
I feel that that's one of the main
things that I'm currently not enjoying
about the game is the fact that I just
feel like I get stuck like sitting there
for 15 minutes in an unwinnable game
that there's nothing I can do
they made like contradictory points in
that thing though like yeah they wanted
it to be yeah early game and then you
can actually close with the leads but
then they were like we also want the
teams that are behind to have a way to
actually get back in the game so I'm
pretty sure it's just gonna end up being
exactly the same yeah can't really exist
at the same time very well that's not
saying they like that's why I say
leagues either didn't means like really
good or really bad because if they
implement if they somehow manage to
implement those things in tandem
correctly I feel like it's gonna be
really good you're gonna have the fun
comeback games but also you're gonna be
able to get out of games that are just
completely unwinnable what if they just
move the ffs time into ten minutes and
that's their actual like big plan
honestly I wouldn't I wouldn't doubt it
I could see that being me like salvage
play they go for and they're like oh
shit this isn't working I'm just like
alright ten minute ffs sounds really
good the community will love that yeah I
don't know - next point like I think it
just ends up being really chaotic and
swingy if it's like yeah there's so many
good catch-up mechanics that way
people can get back into the game but if
you fail them do any of those catch-up
mechanics the other team just fucking
crushes you like that doesn't sound more
fun to me but if people's main concern
is that they're in like what riot calls
trapped games and like and maybe that is
better I don't know people are gonna
really hate it though if games get to
the point like at least four it averaged
like soloqueue players and stuff if
people are able to just end the game
like super hard early you're really not
gonna like soloqueue and your teammate
like loses Lane by accident mm-hmm
not up guy's probably gonna want to be
nine and then it's just gonna bring back
the like 1v9
metas where one person can solo carry
and right it's like kind of moved
everything away from that and yeah I
don't see it ever going back to that but
I still think season nine it's gonna be
not bad like surely should be good also
like I don't know I don't think this is
a very popular opinion but I like longer
games I feel I feel like I had most fun
playing I don't know if I'm ever back in
like season five six the games went on
for like 45 50 minutes
I don't know that always gave that
always felt more fun to me than these
games that are averaging like 2025
minutes because I felt like that was
actually an investment in like the game
and it felt more exciting especially at
the end whenever like we would have like
high play game team fights and stuff two
points on that one that's probably not
the average gamers opinion like I think
with what we've seen with the success of
battle Royales and things like that and
faster paced games I think for the most
part people actually want to lower
average game time and I think Wright has
said that they're trying to get it
around 30 or something yeah I mean
they're literally releasing a game mode
that's supposed to be faster and part
because that so so I'm just saying the
average gamer is not in agreement with
you well I think sorry I think that has
to deal with the thing with being
entrapped games though because I'm
telling you market data wise market data
wise the average gamer does not want to
have to play a game that's 40 minutes
when they're trying to get games in
nothing we have a delete player in them
just only the average gamer yeah
here's a straw pull on it right now I
know that this my chat is not the
average player but I'm court so would
you rather have ones that would you
rather live like a 23-minute game or do
you rather have a 30-minute game or a
45-minute average game time okay I want
to lose Erwin as fast as possible pretty
much in all my games if I'm playing like
casually yeah no one else fast yeah and
to the point that Oscar is making like
those can sometimes feel at odds if you
want a long game but you're like it
feels like a trap game because if
there's not grits like what you would do
is take away some of the easy wind
conditions like rift Herald it's slow
bear and down so it's not this game
ender and then the team that gets ahead
can't smash the game super quickly and
then you might feel like you're in a
trapped game where one team gets 10
kills in the first 15 minutes of the
game but the objectives up aren't
powerful enough to snowball to a 25
minute victory and it goes 40 minutes
even though this team has basically been
winning since minute 15 like that's
exactly what you're saying you don't
want to feel which is what you
potentially have when you increase the
average game time to it to longer games
yeah hopefully they find that good
balance they were talking about this
house but it's just it seems really
weird the post of it is just like yeah
this doesn't this isn't really possible
to even make exist just kind of said you
want both things and then left it at
that
okay so right now our strawpoll it's
coming in about seventy thirty seventy
31 or seventy one a 30 minute average
game length and 31 to 45 and we've got
189 votes so far and I feel like this
audience is probably more likely to skew
for a longer game times because they're
more hardcore yeah they get used to
waiting like 30 to 40 minutes for the
show to actually start when you say this
started eight starts like 8:30 so
definitely patient
I know that feel no flame Travis plenty
of flame I also sort of wonder how like
the new rate changes are gonna plan to
all this like hell they're just I'm
wonder if it's gonna be another dynamic
queue situation with the what I still
don't fully understand what their new
range changes are actually full of like
the whole different like ranks for every
position and whatnot but even are the
changes for that is that oh it's just
like ranked on positions yeah sort of
but like losing games on one rank like
loses LP on other ranks somehow or
something okay so it's basically just
the same but it's yeah but you have
separate rings for every role I don't
know I don't know it sounds like it'll
probably be the same like it's just
gonna be people are gonna queue up for
one role and not care about playing the
others because it's just gonna affect
all of them try to be the same okay
that's weird
I don't know hopefully it's good I
always am very hopeful that what riot
does is good and I try to keep like an
open mind for it
people are hella negative and like oh
they're fucking it up again here comes
riot but I try to keep an open mind I
try to keep my own mind but like I just
set my expectations really low so if
they do every anything above just like
complete garbage I'm happy were you the
guy who called in talking about clash
yes I'm so pissed about clash it would
have been really good I I don't even
know how they said I know they said
they're just gonna try and make it work
but I wonder if they've given up they've
done some tests in other regions like
little mini betas and stuff that Mittman
testing yeah since it all failed yeah
they've been doing other things I know
they had one like last month or
something Ian's northeast I'm pretty
sure hmm that's good to hear I guess
anyways I don't know if there's anything
else Travis Kasich or thank you so much
for your call thank you moving on we've
got two more people and then we're gonna
ramp it up hoping to bring it back in
late 2018 but it's very iffy okay
yeah rights having a tough year I think
that's what happens yeah I just want
class to come back that was actually the
most fun I've had playing league in a
long time yeah actually it would have
been really fun and I would have forced
me I have not wanted to play the game
and like a competitive style like I
mostly played normals and air Rams it I
think that could have reignited my love
for like rain :
toast men toss Minh is that your name ah
toast men whatever toast is the
important part because there's not an a
up there so it's what do you where you
come from so I'm calling from Ottawa
Canada out of a Canada and what do you
want to talk about mr. Canadian friend
so I'm just gonna read out what I posted
na LCS this year is the most competitive
it has ever been and the teams that look
strong right now will probably make a
good showing ie echo fox tal 100 thieves
maybe c9 and rift rivals is an awful
format but really doesn't mean anything
so you know to kind of expand on that a
little bit obviously R if rivals is the
only real international competition with
the teams in a day that we have right
now so far to kind of compare about
anything and we had echo fox 200 thieves
obviously an a lost not great and there
was some issues with our issues there
was some differences from how teams were
normally playing with like hundred
thieves swapping their roster and
obviously echo fox has different roster
almost completely now and tal I mean
geologists did tl things and they were
did whatever they did and did a pretty
good showing overall as far as the games
were concerned against the EU teams G to
splice and
fanatic like the games themselves
weren't actually that bad even the ones
na really lost wasn't that awful
and like comparing to previous years
from the different thick competition
between na and EU like the games have
never really been one-sided stomps or
they'd never been anything like sure
it's hugely egregious and so really
you're waiting you got you really think
and he's gonna do it they're in a good
place I don't know I don't know about
going to get to semies like that guy was
called that caller said earlier well
we've gotten to quarters before better
places like one win away from getting
the quarters this year last year yeah
one went away so it's obviously not like
crazy fiction or anything but yeah I
think it's really not that I think
there's a lot of people that will
disagree with you on it I'm curious
marking an era what's your take
I'd like to comment on the rift revels
part sure I think that that's a pretty
obviously I was fuckin na for this so my
comment is automatically just thrown
away
I think ref revels was kind of a shit
show in terms of like context for echo
Fox I mean we couldn't even use their
like actual roster for our team I'm not
sure if people are aware but rosters
were locked for rift rivals based on
like what you locked in on a week one
and stuff like that
so we had to use our week 1 roster that
was used because of visa problems so we
went to riff rebels but that same roster
so we went in saying all right well
we're gonna practice these roster
iterations give Adrian a chance to try
out as well since you know it's a good
opportunity for him to get stage
experience so a lot of roster swaps
there to experiment with and that was a
yeah I mean it wasn't bad it was still
pretty good obviously that was our old
like third-place team to basically from
string split
but it wasn't the roster we wanted to go
forward with so that kind of made the
whole competition between na EU a little
skewed yeah but I think the team the
difference between the regions isn't
that insane
just like when na got a huge ego and
they beat Europe it wasn't like there is
an insane advantage for na at all and
then an EU beaten a I don't think
there's a huge advantage at all like I
don't know I think it's pretty close in
that regard
but I don't think na is suddenly more
competitive at all than they were in
past Flitz I think na teams still have
similar problems I think there's a lot
of big issues with that that haven't
changed I'm obviously biased on the echo
fox and and there's definitely problems
with like echo fox team itself in terms
of like doing really well
internationally but it's probably the
best chance you have it anything like
that
great being successful internationally I
think just because of a different type
of place that yeah well I think I a lot
of times when a reaching is like better
people assume that means like forever
and ever and they just dominated shit on
them that's not really how like it is
like you can be slightly worse and lose
and still like in that regard I kind of
agree with venero that like when na won
I think we were playing better maybe we
had a better read on the method how the
game should be played whatever it was
but as you can tell they came back and
they were just fine at Worlds and I
think you know it's very possible if
some would think could happen with na
and so I don't really read into rift
rivals too much for why I think na might
be in trouble I think you know that was
that was just a torn you said I don't
think that format I think that formats
very fun but don't agree it's shit I
think it's there to have fun and have
the best teams in Europe and na by each
other because otherwise that wouldn't
have a chance to unless they lucked out
in worlds or MSI situations so I I'm
glad it is there but I agree that I
don't think one team winning one of
those events is like the ultimate thing
but I don't think riff rivals was shit I
just don't think it was very like
complain yeah
entertaining and it was gay yeah we're
on the same page then like Freya when we
say shit it's like shit isn't actually
getting anything from it with how in A&E
you really compare yeah it was basically
T L versus Europe yeah that was the only
like real stable team that was there
hey toss man I'm sorry - I'd love to
keep talking about this but we're
running a little bit over time so thank
you so much for your call I understand
yeah very much I'm young I have a good
one you know yeah the final thing I'll
say on this but like I think na doesn't
need to be like complete dog shit to
have a bad performance at worlds like
you know I think we can go there and be
slightly worse than the rest of the
regions and then go and not make it out
of groups which is a pretty bad look
without being like oh my god we're
hopeless and we'll never ever get out of
groups again kind of thing I think
people just overreact but in arrows
point like people are definitely better
or worse I don't I'm not super hopeful
this world's yeah yeah I think it'll be
pretty similar to past worlds yep thank
you - Marcus or going as well are you
okay Venera yeah i'm still good
call me proto hello how are you how are
you doing what's up dude I'm good man
how are you guys pretty good thanks for
being a twitch prime sub or twitch sub
what yeah happy to support where where
you come from
Santa Clarita California Santa Clarita
okay have we had you on before I have
been a watcher but I've never been in
the call okay
first-time caller longtime listener all
the time was there what do you want to
talk about on the show today
so I wanted to talk about how tsm's ven
is basically holding back all of TSM and
they seem to be unable to win when the
botlane flag is which is very very very
often when the balling Flags yeah I like
their botlane just does not do anything
proactive without calling for help from
the other lanes
and he's playing basically poke
champions in like a close-range meta
when Caixa was strong Ellucian was
strong he's playing Ezreal and Varys
he's not really doing anything and mithy
is taking a lot of the blame even though
mithi is literally sacrificing himself
to save sands life yeah an arrow I don't
know I don't think that's really TSM's
problem I mean to be honest mithi
Mullane like from talking with multiple
teams and players laning against him
they think that he's kind of not doing
so hot anyone he was in Europe it wasn't
like he was this insane like Lane area
that was great
like he's always been kind of not
amazing at Lane European bot lanes
aren't necessarily the greatest thing to
come out of Europe and they haven't been
for awhile so a lot of you came ba lanes
aren't even like Lane Kingdom shit like
the last thing that was there like
forgiving right bringing them in and
expecting them like on Thyssen to have
this like linking them like oh they're
gonna be the best in the West they're
gonna win everything was kind of an
unfortunate assumption when they got
brought in and I think their team just
has a lot of role players and not actual
like carry people that are willing to
step up and say this is how we're gonna
play the game and we're gonna do this
obviously I don't know that internal
comms but I think that's the main
problem is that they have all these guys
that are great at playing their role and
being stable but no one's actually press
go and tell their team to go right so
they just kind of sit around and say
fuck we're losing are we gonna do
something instead of right but when you
listen to like the like behind the
scenes videos TSM legends and stuff
the thing that I've commonly seen in at
least two episodes it could be three or
four now is in the postgame they're all
sitting in their little room and ven is
complaining about the draft like he's
always placing the blame on the draft
that like the team doesn't know how to
play and it's like well you've been
playing you've been practicing for a
week straight doing you know several
versions of your draft and you still
don't understand how it's supposed to
work you're not really helping the
conversation he's not even posing like
the problem is exactly he's just saying
he's just putting abstractedly on like
the draft know what the problem is to
sew it but he knows that the draft is an
issue and he doesn't know how to fix it
yeah I mean even if so like even if we
suppose that's true
like he's whining about the draft I
still wouldn't really go around calling
him shit I think he's actually a very
impressive player I agree that he is
like he's not a lane Kingdom player he's
not gonna like jam his leads down your
throat like some people do but he made
he's really fucking good in mid to late
game teamfights like I think he has the
highest DPM in the league which is not
obviously an end-all be-all stat and I'm
not saying like definitive I'm just
saying like the highest DPM but he's
also doing it from such a far range like
he's barely on like untouched and most
of these teamfights at the end of the
game yeah but I think this cuz he's good
like it's not just the number so again
when I watch him play like he looks
fucking good and like he had one
god-awful serious versus clutch like
that was some horse shit out of him I
think he knows it and like outside of
like some instances where he completely
poops the bed which every player has I
think he is actually super super good so
III don't I don't agree that he I think
he could be a problem and still not be
shit it's like to that point like maybe
he does complain too much about the
dress maybe he's not proactive enough in
this team and his contributing to but
like the reactive nature that they have
all that can be true I would still never
call Sven shit no I'm not I wouldn't say
yeah I would say he's not really half so
like comment on him like pointing out
their draft and that like being a thing
that like we're saying that this is bad
that he's pointing out that is their
problem
honestly I've heard other stuff with TSM
we're like talking is like an offhand
comment and don't know the specifics but
it was like they picked someone in the
draft who's gonna like take the bullet
for the team and get a bad and match up
and just like lose and when I was
drafting against them it kind of felt
like that too that they were
willing to just sacrifice one person and
it made drafting against them really
feel easy because they felt like they
had to sacrifice someone to get an
advantage somewhere else which is just
not really the case and it never felt
like they tried to trap people and draft
or force you into pigs and that's not to
say that drafts were bad it's just like
they were really predictable and they
had this same weakness every time that
you could kind of exploit and expect so
him pointing that out as an issue is is
pretty important I think but like the
fact that he's you're saying that he's
putting all the blame on something like
that like as a player when you're losing
ally he's probably just frustrated and
sees this as a problem point and doesn't
see it getting fixed because
realistically that has existed for a
while and wants it to get fixed and
doesn't know what their like actual
problems are as a team and I don't know
man I think overall it's just like it's
not one player on that team that's the
problem
I really think TSM as a teen it's
composed of really good players that
have all proven they're really good
players it's just they're all players
that are really good at playing a role
and providing for their team so that
someone else can carry and someone else
can use the fact that they're able to be
stable all the time it's a snowball a
game and win sure I think that's
definitely true that they're all kind of
waiting for one of the other lanes to
step up and not really being proactive
themselves but I think part of why the
draft you know doesn't look bad from an
outsider's point of view in spectators
believe you and even when the team talks
about it is I think it's Venn has just a
limited champion pool like he's played
two champions he has nine games on those
two champions and they're Israel and
varus so sorry seven games on those two
champions two games on Caixa which he
won when he they were doing well in
Caixa was broken but he barely ventured
out of the ad carry like meta to go into
Heimerdinger or Swain or Vladimir he
didn't play that Amir at all when
Vladimir strong he won one game on Swain
and it's like I think when you look at
the drafts they're really limited in
what they can do
because they have a player who's
unaggressive and doesn't know how to
play like close-range champions that
aren't insanely broken like I said I
mean what looking looking at the
champions he's played this split though
like yeah he's played Caixa he's played
Farris Ezreal like kaizo was meta at the
time varus has been meta varus turned
into actually be the ad carry that you
could blind pick so that people could
stop picking mages which is important to
have and then Ezreal is just like the
pig that you can pick into other people
picking these a DS like I think they
messed up against like TL blinding
Ezreal and letting them take Kai so
which is just not ideal at all but he's
played Swain he played a game of heimer
which most teams don't feel comfortable
pulling out on stage at all but he still
tried it they won their game on suena
actually and he played Lucian his last
game versus echo fox - like he's played
these different champions it's just yeah
he's played varus in Ezreal more than
most and that's just because varus is a
meta pick he's blinding a lot for his
team so that other people can counter
pick and maybe that's just the role the
team feels that they need to have for
him I don't think that's necessarily his
fault he's playing multiple champions
he's playing more than people like like
double if placed I saw all the fucking
time but he's a strength for the team -
it's not like he's a weakness but he
plays that yeah God's been for you well
double have played more of Kaiser a
close-range champion and performed way
better on it like right times 9.7 KD a
right but like it goes be like what a
player picks goes beyond that individual
player and like I think you can say
potentially he has a bad champ or
whatever but like - an arrows point if
they are like we want counter pick for
uragan and hauntzer and shit than like
someone has to take their stuff early
and it sounds like I'll be that guy and
that's just sometimes how teams work as
well as like we're resources go like
they can say like you know people like
Unni and RDoc obviously are gonna have
more resources than their botlane no
matter colluded pauline is seemingly so
like sometimes that's how teams work and
like everyone agrees that's how it's
going to go and when you're on a losing
team
and that's your strategy of course it's
gonna look bad but that doesn't
necessarily I think that's more of a
team problem like we were saying
potentially yeah like just untii l
mentally he's played case of seven games
of split and Sven is played like the
same on various Azrael combined I mean
it's just how the teams work that's just
how the drafting and doesn't mean he's
at fault for sure so if anything him
calling out draft is like maybe a reason
that he doesn't want to even be doing
that
so yes teams playing in teams like what
they feels are strange yeah and to be
fair I'm not saying that vans the worst
ad carry you know in the league I'm just
saying if you have to pick five players
on TSM and rate them from best to worst
I think he's falling very far like in
the bottom half at legally no way I
think I'll have a hard time wanting
people to go with you on that so I I go
one or two but call me proto I want to
thank you so much for calling in because
I think it was an interesting
conversation and definitely give in the
other thing to talk about so thank you
so much for your call
alright so that is the show an error you
got any shadows plugs anything you want
to throw out there uh I mean I guess I
can't shout the echo fox discord anymore
I thought that was always my go-to I
don't know thanks everyone who looks at
my Twitter every now and then he gives
me a favorite I appreciate those they're
really nice
these begging yes follow him all 939
shell everyone go but go follow
I need the Twitter clout real bad that's
it thanks for having me on Travis yeah
somebody says I'm very upset with the
stream experience for a couple reasons
but the most of them is being blued for
two hours and what that means I think I
had the most unique and interesting
topic and all I want despite how upset I
am it would be wonderful if there was
some feedback for clips I have an idea
but notice me first we just there's a
lot of people that want to come on the
show we can't get everybody there's
probably a lot of interesting topics I'm
sorry mark you got any shoutouts what
was what was the topic you wanted to
give I have no idea
mark Egon Schiele's place no I kind of
did most time at the top of the show
offline TV and you merge check it out
i-it's chit other than that not really
man plate maker is episode 2 comes out
tomorrow on the YouTube channel keep an
eye out for that I think it's really
good with Nathan Blau I'm gonna stick
around on stream for a little bit
afterwards I might even preview it if
you guys stick around and maybe play
more of it if we can hit those so cool
thank you to an arrow thank you to mark
I'm trying to think if there's anything
else I'll be at LCS this weekend and
yeah playmakers every Tuesday and
Thursday and throughout August I think
it's good stuff go watch the one with
Ghostcrawler it's up it's on the channel
check it out dude Travis thank you I
think you'll like it an arrow I think he
likes this is what I do like it hot line
League episode 39